As a family, we were doing very well spiritually, we did family worship, preaching and going to the meetings together.
After some time, we began to encounter financial problems.
At times, we did not even have money to buy food for each day.
Many people in our area were going to South Africa to provide basic needs for their families.
So I decided to go as well.
Leaving behind my wife to take care of our seven children.
This affected me spiritually, because I did not know the language, I was unable to preach,
and I did not benefit from the meetings.
Being so far from my family caused me to neglect my responsibility as a family head.
As a result, my family grew weak spiritually, and we all missed each other very much.
I realized that I had made a wrong decision going abroad.
My conscience started to trouble me greatly.
Then I remembered the example of Barrick, founded Jeremiah chapter 45, verse 5.
Barrick may have wanted to pursue material riches as I had.
When he was helped, he returned.
I decided then to put Jehovah in first place instead of searching for material things.
So I started to make changes to go home and help my family spiritually.
When I left South Africa and reached the border of Malawi after leaving my family for about six months,
I felt great happiness in my heart, and I am still happy till now.
Studying the Bible has helped me.
We still encounter financial problems, but I remember that in Satan's world,
there is no way we can go and have no problems.
Now I serve as an elder.
My family is progressing spiritually, and this makes me very happy,
because my relationship with Jehovah is strong.